According to Robert Walsh, head of Brisbane based game developer Krome Studios, next generation games will cost between $10 25m to make, with teams averaging 80 staff in size taking two years to complete a title.
One area not yet dominated by graphical blockbusters is mobile phone games.
One developer bucking the trend towards big art teams is Will Wright, the creator of the best selling The Sims games.
The Game Developers Conference included a special two day summit dedicated to creating mobile games.
But numerous speakers warned that creating such graphics will require more artists, and so next generation console games will be much more expensive to develop.
EA Mobile is a division of Electronic Arts, the biggest games publisher.
EA plans to release up to 20 mobile games over the next 12 months.
Even the latest phones are not as powerful as the consoles of a decade ago, so smaller teams of half a dozen people can still create complete games for the devices.
For gamers, this should make for better, more immersive games.
Games typically take at least 18 months to create, however, so developers are grappling with the hardware today.
Instead of employing lots of artists to create 3D models of the digital creatures, Spore generates and displays the creatures according to rules devised by the programmers.
It's predicted that by 2006 two billion people will own a mobile phone.
Mobile games are a fast growing sector because newer phones have better graphics and sound, and are thus more suitable for playing games.
Mr Batter predicted that by 2006, mobile phones would be capable of running games of comparable quality to those on Sony's upcoming PSP handheld console.
Mr Wright said that enabling players to devise and share their creatures would make them care more about the game.
The first will be a version of its Need for Speed racing game, created by EA Mobile's 30 person development team.
The founder of California's Maxis studio surprised the conference with a world exclusive preview of his next game, Spore.
The game's visual quality would be "like a lucid dream," said Mr Cameron.
The software can create up to 2,000 new heads an hour.
These so called "next generation" machines will be faster than current consoles, and capable of displaying much higher quality visuals.
" New development tools will be another important aid in making next generation games, and dozens of companies demonstrated their latest products at the conference.

