But if his leadership ambitions were at least temporarily thwarted in 1994, Mr Brown continued his devotion to politics.
And Mr Blair's decision to name his own retirement date has at least given Mr Brown something to aim for   even if the prime minister's intention to "serve a full third term" if elected, took the shine off the announcement for the chancellor and his sup...
Amid all this it is easy to forget that Mr Brown remains the man most likely to succeed Mr Blair as Labour leader.
The ideological differences between Mr Brown and Mr Blair remain relatively modest.
The ultimate prize of 10 Downing Street may continue to elude him but, as he prepares to deliver a record breaking ninth budget, Gordon Brown can at least console himself with the thought that he is the longest serving chancellor of modern times.
But with the Tories having appeared to get the better of the pre election campaign thus far there are reports that Mr Brown   using the Budget as a springboard   is to revitalise Labour's campaign.
There may be no shortage of possible contenders for the crown   including Mr Milburn   but none can command the sort of support in the parliamentary party and beyond that Mr Brown can.
How much longer Mr Brown will continue in the job is not clear (he once said there are two types of chancellor: "those who fail and those who get out in time.
But, for now, Mr Brown dominates the domestic political scene like few chancellors   or politicians   before him.
The chancellor opposes the further encroachment of the market into the NHS and is seen as being more "Old Labour" than Mr Blair in his approach to wealth redistribution.
He became shadow chancellor under John Smith's leadership in 1992.
At 12, he was canvassing for Labour and by his 20s he was a leading political activist in Scotland.
") There are rumours he will be moved to the Foreign Office if Labour wins the general election.
The other part of the deal, that Mr Blair will one day stand down in favour of the chancellor, is the stuff of Westminster legend.

